when you get to be my age you do not in
fact see something new every day but
once in a while something like this
comes across my desk that really is
somewhat new and shocking to me what
we're looking at here is a wild arctic
fox the type of arctic fox that's native
to Finland and then we have the contrast
to what these foxes look like when
they're in a state of constant
exploitation by the fur industry in
Finland they have selectively bred these
animals you could say they've
genetically modified them so that they
have folds and folds of skin all over
their whole bodies so they produce more
fur and also so that their total body
weight is higher and higher so the
documentary says that the the average
body weight for an adult male this type
of arctic fox in the wild is about 3.5
kilograms and within the fur farms of
Finland nineteen point four kilograms in
the average about a third of them weigh
more than 20 kilograms so they have been
bred to the point where the legs don't
work properly their eyes don't work
properly and obviously the floppy folds
of fat and skin to covering their whole
body is so that they can produce more
efficiently fur for human consumption
for people to make coats out of their
dead bodies after they're dead and also
of course we have the implicit absurdity
here of these animals just being born to
die living a life that is absolutely
nothing but suffering in a cage on a
farm below this video you're gonna find
a link to the group who created this
video or you could Illya media I can't
pronounce it at all but this is a
Finnish group and their name translates
to justice for Animals
you can take a look at that video in its
entirety it does not contain anything
gross or disturbing or upsetting doesn't
contain any blood or what have you
conversely in terms of their suggestions
of where to go from here they don't
mention veganism I don't know what the
relationship of this group is to
veganism if they're vegan or not they
mostly talk about this in terms of the
weakness and ineffectiveness of welfare
legislation that they currently have in
fan
that they want to see better legislation
and better enforcement of the
legislation that already have so it
doesn't seem that they're approaching
this in an abolitionist manner I do
think that this is a challenging and
interesting example for other vegans to
look at and think about because most
vegans were fly most vegans respond to
these sorts of images of animals
floatation by saying that the animals
should be rescued
the animals should be put in sanctuaries
that the animals should be raised as
pets
many animals they're sorry part of me
many vegans base their whole animal
rights paradigm on the idea that all
animals should be treated the same way
that we treat pet dogs but this gets
into the abolitionist question posed by
Carrie Franchione a and other leaders in
the vegan movement of whether or not we
have to talk about abolishing this
industry entirely and whether or not
this breed of animals this breed that's
been you know it's so obviously
incapable of surviving in the wild now
obviously incapable even of walking
properly or if using its eyes properly
because the skin no longer fits over the
eye sockets and so on whether or not
this this breed of animal produced only
for human exploitation whether or not it
should exist at all these are tough
questions and I think all of the answers
ultimately simply come down to
legislation and that's why veganism is
not just a diet but is ineluctably and
inevitably a political movement a
political cause but no Yin